Studio metrics revamp (#546)
apollographql/docs: src/content/graphos/metrics/field-usage.mdx

---
title: Field usage in GraphOS
description: Understand which fields your clients use
---

> Once you've configured your graph to send [field metrics to GraphOS](./sending-operation-metrics/#reporting-field-usage), you can analyze them in [GraphOS Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com/?referrer=docs-content) from any variant's **Insights** page:

Reviewer: Analyze the [field metrics sent by your graph](./sending-operation-metrics/#reporting-field-usage) to GraphOS from any variant's **Insights** page in [GraphOS Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com/?referrer=docs-content):

Author: Ah just seeing this now and realizing it was probably meant to be a suggestion:

```suggestion
You can analyze the [field metrics sent by your graph](./sending-operation-metrics/#reporting-field-usage) to GraphOS from any variant's **Insights** page in [GraphOS Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com/?referrer=docs-content):
```

<img
  src="../img/insights-fields.jpg"
  className="screenshot"
  alt="The Insights page in GraphOS Studio"
/>

> > **Note**: Reporting field metrics requires additional steps beyond operation metrics. See [Reporting field usage](./sending-operation-metrics#reporting-field-usage) for details.
> 

Reviewer: Remove this, the link's already provided above

```suggestion

```

> This page combines operation and field metrics and has two main sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Insights page presents operation and field metrics. It has two main sections:
```

> - The collapsible left sidebar, where you can search, filter, and sort operations and fields
> - The main insights view, which displays overall operations metrics by default but displays individual field information and usage metrics when you select a field from the left sidebar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **collapsible left sidebar**. Search, filter, and sort operations and fields.
- The **main insights view**. View either overall operations metrics by default, or field information and usage metrics for a single field selected from the left sidebar.
```

> This page focuses on field metrics accessible from the left sidebar. Refer to [Operation metrics in GraphOS](./operations) for more information on the other metrics on this page, including [resolver-level traces](/operations#resolver-level-traces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on field metrics accessible from the left sidebar. Refer to [Operation metrics in GraphOS](./operations) for more information on the other metrics on this page, including [resolver-level traces](/operations#resolver-level-traces).
```

## Field navigation

> By default, the left sidebar shows a paginated list of all fields, but you can use it to hone in on certain ones.
> Specifically, you can:
> 
> - Search for a particular field by its name or parent type
> - Filter fields by whether they are unused or deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the left sidebar shows a paginated list of all fields. 

To hone in on certain fields:

- Search for a particular field by its name or parent type
- Filter fields by whether they are unused or deprecated
```

  className="screenshot"
  alt="The Insights page in GraphOS Studio"
  width="300"
/>

- Sort fields (descending or ascending) by:

  - Alphabetically
  - By total requests (count)
  - By request rate in requests per minute (rpm)
  - By executions (count)
  - By total errors, error %, or error rate
  - By p50, p90, p95, and p99 latency in milliseconds, seconds, or minutes (ms, s, min)

<img
  src="../img/field-sidebar-sort.jpg"
  className="screenshot"
  alt="The Insights page in GraphOS Studio"
  width="300"
/>

Click a field name in the sidebar to learn more about its usage.

## Field details

> When you click a field name, you open detailed information for that field in the main insights view. The includes when the field first and last received traffic, any applied [tags](../graphs/federated-graphs/#schema-tagging), and the subgraphs that provide the field.

Reviewer 2: Should "The includes" be "This includes"?

```suggestion
When you click a field name, you open detailed information for that field in the main insights view. This includes when the field first and last received traffic, any applied [tags](../graphs/federated-graphs/#schema-tagging), and the subgraphs that provide the field.
```

Author: I think there's a word missing here, e.g. "The main view includes...", will revisit!

Author: https://github.com/apollographql/docs/pull/546/commits/32478d7b5e6e00767547c6696f579e74a271dbf6

}
```

This query's execution starts in the Reviews subgraph, but it needs to obtain each `Product`'s `name` from the Products subgraph. As part of this process, the Products subgraph must [resolve references](/federation/entities/#2-define-a-reference-resolver) to `Product`s provided by the Reviews subgraph.

To help resolve these references, the Reviews subgraph _must_ return each `Product`'s `id` field, even though that field isn't included in the original query. This is because `id` is a `@key` field for `Product`.

> Therefore, this query contributes one zero requests and one execution for `Product.id`. Similar logic applies to fields that use the [`@requires` directive](/federation/entities-advanced#contributing-computed-entity-fields).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, this query contributes zero requests and one execution for `Product.id`. Similar logic applies to fields that use the [`@requires` directive](/federation/entities-advanced#contributing-computed-entity-fields).
```
